# Face-Detection-with-MTCNN-and-FaceNet
The goal of this project is to develop a robust face recognition model using a dataset of photos taken during classes. The focus is on creating a model that can accurately identify and distinguish between students in various classroom settings, lighting, backgrounds, etc. 

We used both track 1(without deep learning) and track 2(With deep learning) methods to implement our face recognition process/model. We were able to achieve high accuracies for track 1 models when compared to performances of models from previous quarters and were also successfully able to implement track 2 which has given our highest accuracy for the provided data set.

In this repository I have provided the deep learning solution using MTCNN and Facenet

I will briefly describe how I went about researching and trying out different things before finally being able to get the final accuracy. Initially I tried the Deepface technique by importing libraries such as face_recognition and installing dlib, etc. I was facing a lot of errors in this method mainly with the shape of the images that were being extracted and that all were of different sizes. So, I tried another approach which also used the face_recognition library but this time it extracted the face features as coordinates and trained the model with these features. But the reference I was using needed me to have images in the json format file and there were few other issues again related to sizes of the images even after resizing them. Finally, the method I used in the end was Multi-Task Convolutional Neural Network (MTCNN) and FaceNet to preprocess the data and then passed it through SVM rbf kernel to get the high validation accuracy of 99.34%. 
